OBSDOCS-702: Clarify available endpoint auth methods in user workload… (#75588)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/monitoring-example-service-endpoint-authentication-settings.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * observability/monitoring/configuring-the-monitoring-stack.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE
[id="example-service-endpoint-authentication-settings_{context}"]
= Example service endpoint authentication settings

You can configure authentication for service endpoints for user-defined project monitoring by using `ServiceMonitor` and `PodMonitor` custom resource definitions (CRDs). 

The following samples show different authentication settings for a `ServiceMonitor` resource.
Each sample shows how to configure a corresponding `Secret` object that contains authentication credentials and other relevant settings.

> 

Reviewer: I think each of these examples should be separate. The rendered preview with the text inside the `====` looks odd. 

```
The following sample shows....
.Sample blah
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
```

Author: Hello @mburke5678 I have tried many ways to make this as easy to read as possible. I find that this method is actually the best, let me show the other cases:

1. Without a heading, it is just many blacks of texts which makes it really hard to navigate. It would be 6 different blocks of text, which is, in my opinion, not the best solution.
![image](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/assets/98941675/f88add8a-4230-46a5-8a0a-b8cacb3417e3)

2. I tried to create headings for each example. This solution works much better, however, I still think the solution with blocks helps it even more to distinguish:
![image](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/assets/98941675/19663511-8ebb-4f2a-b03f-477bdb671d9a)

3. If I combine the previous two solutions, I will get  the following result. I like this solution the most out of these three.
![image](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/assets/98941675/cef8d268-6581-4217-a610-84fdd2bdc6ca)

I took into concideration one more factor though, and that is that we already have one solution like this in the Monitoring docs: [Remote write](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.15/observability/monitoring/configuring-the-monitoring-stack.html#example-remote-write-authentication-settings_configuring-the-monitoring-stack) That is why I chose that solution in the end, to have some consistency in the docs.

WDYT? I still like the current solution the most, but the solution no. 3 could also work, however, it would not be as consistent with our other similar example reference doc.

Reviewer: @eromanova97 I like #3 also. I will defer to your opinion what works best for our customers and the docs.

.Sample YAML authentication with a bearer token
====
The following sample shows bearer token settings for a `Secret` object named `example-bearer-auth` in the `ns1` namespace:

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: example-bearer-auth
  namespace: ns1
stringData:
  token: <authentication_token> #<1>
----
<1> Specify an authentication token.

The following sample shows bearer token authentication settings for a `ServiceMonitor` CRD. The example uses a `Secret` object named `example-bearer-auth`:

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1
kind: ServiceMonitor
metadata:
  name: prometheus-example-monitor
  namespace: ns1 
spec:
  endpoints: 
  - authorization:
      credentials:
        key: token #<1>

>         name: example-bearer-auth #<2>

Reviewer 2: I'd suggest to add a "fake" port value otherwise users might copy/paste the example and get confused why it doesn't work.
Same remark for all the examples btw.
```suggestion
        name: example-bearer-auth #<2>
    port: web
```

  selector: 
    matchLabels:
      app: prometheus-example-app
----

> <1> The key that contains the authentication token in the specified `Secret` object.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<1> The key of the secret to select from the specified `Secret` object.
```
```
$ oc explain ServiceMonitor.spec.endpoints.authorization.credentials.key
GROUP:      monitoring.coreos.com
KIND:       ServiceMonitor
VERSION:    v1

FIELD: key <string>

DESCRIPTION:
    The key of the secret to select from.  Must be a valid secret key.
```

> <1> The key that contains the authentication token in the specified `Secret` object.

Author: ```suggestion
<1> The key that contains the authentication token in the  `Secret` object.
```

[IMPORTANT]
=====

> Use an `authorization` object instead of `bearerTokenFile` to configure bearer token. 

Reviewer 2: do we even need this line?

====
The following sample shows Basic authentication settings for a `Secret` object named `example-basic-auth` in the `ns1` namespace:

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: example-basic-auth
  namespace: ns1
stringData:
  user: <basic_username> #<1>
  password: <basic_password>  #<2>
----
<1> Specify a username for authentication.
<2> Specify a password for authentication.

The following sample shows Basic authentication settings for a `ServiceMonitor` CRD. The example uses a `Secret` object named `example-basic-auth`:

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1
kind: ServiceMonitor
metadata:
  name: prometheus-example-monitor
  namespace: ns1 
spec:
  endpoints: 
  - basicAuth:
      username:
        key: user #<1>
        name: example-basic-auth #<2>
      password:
        key: password #<3>
        name: example-basic-auth #<2>
  selector: 
    matchLabels:
      app: prometheus-example-app
----
<1> The key that contains the username in the specified `Secret` object.
<2> The name of the `Secret` object that contains the Basic authentication.
<3> The key that contains the password in the specified `Secret` object.
====

> .Samle YAML authentication with OAuth 2.0

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.Sample YAML authentication with OAuth 2.0
```

====
The following sample shows OAuth 2.0  settings for a `Secret` object named `example-oauth2` in the `ns1` namespace:

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: example-oauth2
  namespace: ns1
stringData:
  id: <oauth2_id> #<1>
  secret: <oauth2_secret> #<2>

>   token: <oauth2_authentication_token> #<3>

Reviewer 2: not needed?

Author: Hello @simonpasquier what value exactly is not needed here? Is it the token one? Is it because we specify the tokenURL in the Servicemonitor object?

Also, I used the [remote-write](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.15/observability/monitoring/configuring-the-monitoring-stack.html#example-remote-write-authentication-settings_configuring-the-monitoring-stack) section as an exmaple, is there an error too then? I
Thank you for clarification!

Reviewer 2: yes the `token` field should be removed here, and also from the OAuth2 remote-write example.

Author: okay, thank you for clarification!

.Example bearer token secret
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: example-bearer-auth
  namespace: ns1
stringData:
  token: <authentication_token> #<1>
----
<1> Specify an authentication token.

The following sample shows bearer token authentication settings for a `ServiceMonitor` CRD. The example uses a `Secret` object named `example-bearer-auth`:

.Example bearer token authentication settings
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1
kind: ServiceMonitor
metadata:
  name: prometheus-example-monitor
  namespace: ns1 
spec:
  endpoints: 
  - authorization:
      credentials:
        key: token #<1>
        name: example-bearer-auth #<2>
    port: web
  selector: 
    matchLabels:
      app: prometheus-example-app
----
<1> The key that contains the authentication token in the specified `Secret` object.
<2> The name of the `Secret` object that contains the authentication credentials.

[IMPORTANT]
=====
Do not use `bearerTokenFile` to configure bearer token. If you use the `bearerTokenFile` configuration, the `ServiceMonitor` resource is rejected.
=====

> == Sample YAML for Basic authentication

Reviewer 4: Unique ID:
```suggestion
[id="sample-yaml-basic-auth_{context}"]
== Sample YAML for Basic authentication
```

.Example Basic authentication secret
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: example-basic-auth
  namespace: ns1
stringData:
  user: <basic_username> #<1>
  password: <basic_password>  #<2>
----
<1> Specify a username for authentication.
<2> Specify a password for authentication.

The following sample shows Basic authentication settings for a `ServiceMonitor` CRD. The example uses a `Secret` object named `example-basic-auth`:

.Example Basic authentication settings
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1
kind: ServiceMonitor
metadata:
  name: prometheus-example-monitor
  namespace: ns1 
spec:
  endpoints: 
  - basicAuth:
      username:
        key: user #<1>
        name: example-basic-auth #<2>
      password:
        key: password #<3>
        name: example-basic-auth #<2>
    port: web
  selector: 
    matchLabels:
      app: prometheus-example-app
----
<1> The key that contains the username in the specified `Secret` object.
<2> The name of the `Secret` object that contains the Basic authentication.
<3> The key that contains the password in the specified `Secret` object.

> == Sample YAML authentication with OAuth 2.0

Reviewer 4: Unique ID:
```suggestion
[id="sample-yaml-oauth-20_{context}"]
== Sample YAML authentication with OAuth 2.0
```
